Welcome back as I mentioned before developers are really really good at making sure they don't keep
doing the same thing over and over.
And if there's anything that is done over and over they build a tool for it so that it becomes simpler.
Well, building servers was one of them.
It's something that everybody uses.
So people use libraries just like we used React on the front-end on top of JavaScript to make our
lives easier and build faster more robust servers.
And there many libraries that people use with Node to create a server.
But the most popular and hands-down the best one right now is Express and I have here the State of JavaScript 2017
survey - it's a famous survey that gets done every year at the end of the year that asks developers
what their favorite tools are what front-end tools they use.
And I highly recommend that you check it out.
But you can see here that for the back-end, the library that is most popular is Express, and this purple bar
means 'I've used it before and would use it again'.
There's other ones like Koa, Meteor, Hapi, but their usage is very very small.
Express is just tried and tested; there's plenty of tools and information online for it
so if you ever get stuck you're able to find an answer to your issue right away.
So Express is the way to go
So let's learn some Express and show you how much easier it becomes to create our own server.
So we're going to delete the server that we built previously in the last video and install Express.
Let's do 'npm install' and again through npm we have the Express package.
And now we have Express available to us.
So let's grab it.
The way you create an Express server is very simple: you simply do 'const express = require('express');'.
We have to do a 'const app' and then to create that app, to run Express, we simply do 'express()'
And then finally
'app.listen(3000)' and that's it.
We have Express running.
Let me do 'npm start' and we see that our Node server is running.
And if I go back to localhost:3000 I have 'Cannot GET'.
And that is because well again we're not doing anything.
But in just three lines we have a server and I want to show you that Express has great
a great guide to getting started and a ton of information on how to use it.
And documentation for it that you can check out on your own.
But for now lets build our own.
Well express is really really good at doing routing.
If you remember in our local host we got 'Cannot GET'. To do a GET request with Express we simply do
'app.get()' – in the first parameter is the path; we'll just do the route path ['/'].
And the second parameter receives a request and a response and in Express instead of writing everything
out, the common way of doing it is doing 'req' and 'res' and in here we can say 'res.send()' and we'll
just send a 'hellooooo' just like we did in our previous video where we use the HTTP module that comes with Node.
So let's check that; let's see if that works. I'm going to save, refresh and I get 'hellooooo'. If I open up the console
here and the Network tab and I refresh again I see that the response is 'hellooooo'.
We see 'Content-Type: text/html' that was converted automatically for us. I can also instead of send[ing]
just an HTML.
So instead of doing something like ''
and ''
which gives us an  'Hellooooo' I can also now send JSON. 'const user' again and this time the user name will
be Sally
and her hobby will be soccer and we need to add an '=' here and then pass in 'user'
If I save that and go back and refresh. Look at that!
It automatically does the 'JSON.stringify()' for me and returns
a JSON Content-Type an 'application/json' Content-Type with the response that is JSON. Very cool. So you
can see the power of Express even just from this simple example.
It takes away a lot of the repetition and makes our life a whole lot easier.
Now we've only done GET here but you can also do POST requests.
So for example if I did 'post' '/profile', well
now if I refresh I get an error because
because now I've made the Request Method, which was GET from the browser.
But here I only accept a POST request from 'profile'. If I do '/profile' here
I get 'Cannot GET /profile' because even though we are going to the proper URL now we're doing a GET request.
Any time we refresh a browser
it's a GET request.
And in order to do that we need to actually send some data over and I'll show you how to do that in
the next couple of videos.
But just to show you how Express works I can keep adding these routes - let's do 'get' a '/profile' that returns
"getting profile".
And if I do a
another 'get' this time to the 'root' url [/] and this one I'll just say "getting root"
if I save this now
and refresh '/profile' I'll get a '200 OK' with the response of 'getting pro and if I do no '/profile'
and just the 'root' url I'll I get 'root'.
And the way Express works is it checks each one line by line.
So for example it will check, "Hey did the GET request have the 'root' url [/]?".
"Did the GET request have '/profile'.
Did the POST request have '/profile'.
And if it matches any of these
well, it will run whatever the function inside of it is.
If I do a url that doesn't exist I get a '404 Not Found' because well we did a GET request to this url
that doesn't exist. So using this we can use the GET method
the POST method, the PUT method and the DELETE method that we're going to actually demonstrate in the next
couple of videos.
But as we can see it's a simple matter of saying if you go to this route do this if you go to this one
do this and everything is just logical and trickles all the way down.
All right I'll see you in the next video.
Bye-bye.